Now, let's take a look at this new version of the code.
So on the left-hand side,
you can see the diagram which includes the main function as we've seen it
before and everything which is new to our lesson two project,
has been added with a blue background.
So the only thing new in the main function,
is a block called Simulate Intersections.
On the right-hand side and we are in TrafficSimulator-L2.cpp right now,
in the main function you can find this block of code here.
So identical to simulate vehicles,
we are now calling up the simulate function on all instances
of intersections which have been created by createTrafficObjects.
In this case, it's not New York City,
it's Paris, as you will soon see.
So we're calling up simulate.
This green arrow here on the left-hand side,
starts up a thread within intersection.
This thread function here is called process vehicle queue.
We're going to look at it very shortly but the main idea of process vehicle queue,
is to continuously check whether there are
any vehicles queuing to enter the intersection,
because if there is, let's say,
five vehicles at the same time driving towards an intersection,
we can only allow a single vehicle at one point in time to
enter the intersection and the rest of them are stored in a waiting queue.
This waiting queue has to be processed continuously so that
when one vehicle exits the intersection,
the next one in the queue can be allowed to enter until the entire queue is empty.
But in order for vehicles to be processed in a queue,
first we have to add them to the queue,
and that's where we're going to look first.
So in the next block in main simulate vehicles, this one here,
this thread we already know,
it goes to the vehicle drive function and that's where we're going to start.
So let's move to the implementation of vehicle.
In the vehicle drive function,
here we go, we have two new blocks.
The first one is called 'Request Entry of Vehicle into Target Intersection',
and the second one is called 'wait until entry has been granted by intersection.'
So let's find these blocks of code in the implementation down here below, and here we go.
That's actually the first indication that we are advancing
towards an intersection, the completion rate.
We have talked about the completion rate before,
when you start on a street driving towards a destination and you are starting afresh,
completion is going to be 0.0.
Once you're at the intersection, it's going to be 1.00,
but as soon as you are approaching the intersection,
this is meaning 90 percent of the street have been driven,
then we want to announce to the intersection that we are approaching,
and that's actually where your first task is for this version of the less than project.
Now task L2.1 means startup a task using standard async,
which takes a reference to the method intersection add vehicle to queue,
the object underscore current destination and
a Share pointer to this using the get_shared_ this function,
and then wait for the data to be available before proceeding to slow down.
That's exactly what's happening here in
request entry of vehicle into target intersection.
We are starting up a thread and the thread calls
the intersection 'add vehicle to queue' as a thread function,
and if we follow the green line here,
that's exactly where we're going to end up,
at intersection add vehicle to queue.
Let's go to the implementation of intersection for
this lesson project and add vehicle to queue is this one here.
Actually directly here is your next task.
So after printing out that a new vehicle has been added,
we're going to add the new vehicle to the waiting line by creating a promise,
by creating a corresponding future,
and then adding both to a object called _waitingvehicles.
Then we have to wait until the vehicle has been granted entry and
that's exactly what's happening in this block here.
We're adding the vehicle of to the waiting queue and then we
are waiting until the vehicle has been granted entry.
We're going to look at this _waitingvehicles implementation in a few seconds,
but now let's first follow this line here back to its origin.
So basically that's the signal we are waiting for here,
or which we are supposed to wait for here.
When this signal comes,
then we may drive into the intersection to finally leave it at the end.
Now, let's follow this line to its origin, to its source.
Actually, it leads to this method called Process Vehicle Queue,
which we talked about at the beginning,
which has the basic idea of continuously
checking for vehicles queuing to enter the intersection.
Once the vehicle which has been waiting for the longest time has been granted entry,
this vehicle needs a signal which wakes it up and then starts at driving
further towards the intersection until
100 percent of the street its currently is on has been completed.
So as soon as entry has been permitted to the vehicle,
we are then moving back to add vehicle queue.
We are then launching this channel of communication here,
which leads us back to vehicle drive,
where we have been waiting for the signal to arrive.
So in-between those two calls,
the thread has been put to sleep.
As soon as we get the signal here,
we are granted access to the intersection,
and then as soon as we are free to go,
we are picking a new destination and then we are crossing the intersection,
and we are then closing the loop and this is
something we have discussed before in the last lesson project.
So that's the basic mechanism.
But for now, let's move back to this to this queue here, this vehicle queue.
In order to understand how this works,
let's first look at the implementation of this new class called Waiting Vehicles.
For this, we need to open up the intersection.h file; the header file.
At the top of this file,
we have a new class defined here,
it's called waiting vehicles,
and it has one getter,
it's getSize, and then we have two typical behavior methods.
The first one is called pushBack.
It takes the shared pointer to a vehicle objects and it also
takes a promise as an r value reference.
So we are seeing the first glimpse of move semantics here.
So this promise is basically the one end of
the communication channel that a vehicle has when it enters an intersection.
Now, here's the basic idea.
Imagine you have a vehicle and it just arrived at the intersection.
It wants to get notified as soon as it's
the turn of this vehicle to enter the intersection.
Maybe there are five vehicles in front of it and has to wait for some time.
By sending this promise as an r value reference to the intersection,
it basically says, "Okay,
notify me once you're ready until then I'm going to sleep."
As soon as we get this message back through this promise here,
then the vehicle can wake up and drive towards the intersection.
That's the basic idea.
This is the mechanism which implements it.
The second function here is called permitEntryToFirstInQueue.
I would say now let's take a look at the implementation of those two function here.
So let's go to intersection.cpp.
Move up to the top where we have
the implementation of all the waiting vehicles functions.
Push_back does nothing more than simply take the shared pointer to the vehicle,
share the r value reference to the promise.
We are simply pushing back the vehicle shared pointer into
our vector and we are also moving the promise into our promises vector.
Here you can see the full move semantics we are not using.
We are taking this r value reference and are
redirecting some pointers internally to not make a copy of it,
but instead to move the original into the vector.
In permitEntryToFirstInQqueue, we have your third task here which basically
says that first you should get the entries from the front of promises and vehicles.
That means, gets the elements at the front of those standard vectors
and then fulfill the promise and send a signal back
that permission to enter has been granted.
Finally, remove the front elements from queues. So that's the mechanism.
We have let's say five vehicles in the queue,
we take the first one, take the promise,
send back the signal to the receiving end of the promise, which is the future,
which is in the vehicle instance,
and waiting for wake up so to speak.
Once it gets the wake up signal,
it then proceeds towards the intersection and that's what's happening here.
Check for vehicles on the left-hand side,
check for vehicles in the queue, check for blockage.
Then block the intersection for the vehicles,
permit the first vehicle in the queue to enter.
Then we follow this communication path here as we did before.
As soon as the vehicle has been cleared,
we are removing it from the queue and then are proceeding to
the next vehicles in the queue until
all the vehicles waiting in the queue have been woken up,
have been granted entry,
and they have transgressed through
the intersection until the intersection is clear once again.
So before you start implementing,
let's take a look at how the aversion is supposed to look like.
Let's run the code as before.
As you can see here, we have
six vehicles progressing towards the intersection in the middle,
and then each vehicle in turn is allowed to enter the intersection,
and it's exactly the same order in which the vehicles arrived.
So now the red one should be last.
Let's wait and see. Yeah, here we go.
Then this vehicle should be allowed to enter,
then this vehicle, then this one, and then this one.
So the message queue is exactly.
Yeah, the program is working its way through the message queue
and allowing access to each vehicle turn by turn.
This is exactly how the program should work after
you have finished with all your three tasks.